# Feature 0010

## Title

Provide a set of C++ classes inspired by the java.lang package in order to handle basic data types.

## Description

The following capabilities and features shall be provided:

- [FE-0010.1] Provide, for each basic numeric type (int, long, float, double, signed and unsigned, with various sizes), a class which is assignable to its basic type. 
    - [FE-0010.1.1] Each class related to a basic numeric type shall provide a constructor which takes a value of the basic type as parameter.
    - [FE-0010.1.2] Each class related to a basic numeric type shall be derivated from a common "Number" base class.
    - [FE-0010.1.3] Each class related to a basic numeric type shall provide methods for addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and comparison. These methods shall return a new instance of the class.
    - [FE-0010.1.4] Each class related to a basic numeric type shall provide methods for safe addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and comparison. These methods shall return a new instance of the class. These methods shall throw an exception if the result is out of range. These methods shall throw an exception if the result is not a number. These methods shall prevent overflow. These methods shall prevent unhandled zero division.
    - [FE-0010.1.5] Each class related to a basic numeric type shall provide conversion methods allowing explcit and well defined conversion to other numeric types.
    - [FE-0010.1.6] Each class shall be thread safe.
    - [FE-0010.1.7] Each class shall provide methods for encoding and decoding values to and from a string. These methods shall throw an exception if the result is not a number. These methods shall throw an exception if the result is out of range. These methods shall support 10 base, or other arbitrary base.
    - [FE-0010.1.8] Each class shall provide methods for conversion from other numeric types.
 - [FE-0010.2] Provide a Boolean class.
    - [FE-0010.2.1] The class shall provide means for encoding and decoding values to and from a basic boolean type.
    - [FE-0010.2.2] The class shall provide means for encoding and decoding values to and from a string.
    - [FE-0010.2.3] The class shall provide methods for conversion from numeric types.
 - [FE-0010.3] Provide a Buffer class.
    - [FE-0010.3.1] The class shall provide means for encoding and decoding values to and from a basic buffer type.
    - [FE-0010.3.2] The class shall provide means for encoding and decoding values to and from a string.
    - [FE-0010.3.3] The class shall provide methods for conversion from numeric types.
        - [FE-0010.3.3.1] The class shall provide conversion methods allowing to specify endianness at byte or word level.
        - [FE-0010.3.3.2] The class shall provide conversion methods allowing to specify word size.
    - [FE-0010.3.4] The class shall provide methods for slicing the buffer.
    - [FE-0010.3.5] The class shall provide methods for concatenation of buffers.
    - [FE-0010.3.6] The class shall provide methods for comparison.
    - [FE-0010.3.7] The class shall provide methods for reversing the buffer at byte or word level.
    - [FE-0010.3.8] The class shall provide methods for cloning the buffer with associated memory allocation.
    - [FE-0010.3.9] The class shall be thread safe.
 - [FE-0010.4] Provide a BitBuffer class.
    - [FE-0010.4.1] The BitBuffer class shall be derivated from the Buffer class.
    - [FE-0010.4.2] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for operations at bit level.
    - [FE-0010.4.3] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for slicing the buffer with bit granularity.
    - [FE-0010.4.4] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for concatenation of buffers.
    - [FE-0010.4.5] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for comparison.
    - [FE-0010.4.6] The BitBuffer class shall provide conversion methods allowing to specify endianness at bit, byte or buffer level.
    - [FE-0010.4.7] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for reversing the buffer at bit, byte or buffer level.
    - [FE-0010.4.8] The BitBuffer class shall provide methods for cloning the buffer with associated memory allocation.
    - [FE-0010.4.9] The BitBuffer class shall be thread safe.


Classes shall be associated with "quasar::coretypes" namespace.

Project shall be localted in cmake-projects/coretypes.

## Expected result
